# Population-Synthesizer

Using the seed sample (from Data.csv), a population of 50,000 agents has been synthesized such that the generated population matches the actual population characteristics (in the table file). 

The synthetic dataset has been generated using undersampling and oversampling of the seed data to match the desired frequencies of each category of each feature. First, the sampling ratio has been calculated - Sampling ratio =  (desired frequency)/(total number of samples). This ratio represents the proportion that each category should contribute to the synthetic dataset. 
For a category, if the desired frequency is greater than the current frequency, it indicates that more samples are required for that category. To do this, random sampling is done from existing data with replacement for that category until the desired frequency is achieved. This is called oversampling. For a category, if the desired frequency is lesser than the current frequency, it indicates that fewer samples are required for that category. To do this, samples are removed randomly from existing data for that category until the desired frequency is achieved. This is called undersampling. Finally, the synthetic dataset is generated by combining the modified samples from each category. This process ensures that the characteristics of the original dataset are not lost and that the desired frequency is achieved. 

Finally, the synthetically generated dataset has been saved to a .csv file called synthetic_dataset.csv and general statistics of the original and synthesized dataset have been printed to show that the characteristics of the original dataset have been maintained. The frequencies of the new dataset have been written to a frequencies.txt file. 
